refresh my memory.
ophelia's the one who kills herself after being driven mad by her family, correct?
should we go meet your new roommate?
i'm all right.
just preparing myself for our uncomfortable journey.
nail file.
my uncle taught me. he spent five years in a tibetan monastery.
was he a monk?
prisoner.
let's see.
i narrowly avoided death twice, discovered that my father may be a murderer, learned that i could potentially destroy the school, and was mysteriously saved by a homicidal monster.
as much as it pains me to admit, you were right, mother.
i think i'm going to love it here.
this story's about to take a dark turn.
luckily,
i'm not afraid of the dark.
there's a monster out there, but everyone believes i made it all up.
i need to find something that can prove i haven't lost my mind.
since you've abandoned me, i've been hunted, haunted, and the target of an attempted murder.
ah, nevermore, i love you so!
[creature snarls, growls]
how do you manage to end up at the center of every terrible thing that happens here?
incredible luck.
you insisted i go to this school.
did you really think i wouldn't find out your secret?
you don't know the full story.
when i suggested giving your side of the room a makeover, i did not have ted bundy's pinterest in mind. ew.
this ends now.
###
edgar allan poe said, "believe nothing you hear and half of what you see."
clearly nevermore's most famous alumni picked that up here.
no wonder he became a drug-addled madman.
rowan! we need to talk.
wednesday, i'm not allowed to speak to anyone.
you had a lot to say when you tried to kill me.
told me i was destined to destroy the school, remember?
where did you get that drawing?
i just went into the woods to clear my head.
then you came after me.
wednesday.
you shouldn't be here.
yeah, back off and leave me alone.
if weems comes sniffing around, keep your distance, look grim, and don't say a word.
payback is going to be a bitch.
i'd expect nothing less.
blab and i will squeeze you like a honeycomb.
snitches get stung.
it's hive code.
besides, i should be thanking you.
this is the most girls i've ever had in the shed.
other than bees.
shocking.
i've always had a thing for werewolf chicks.
the chance that enid ever becomes romantically interested in you is less than 1%.
so i've still got a shot?
yes!
in ancient times, honey was used to treat wounds and in sacrificial burial rites.
cleopatra was rumored to bathe in honey.
gave her skin a luminous glow.
you ever taken a honey bath?
i just don't wanna get stung.
the key is to remain calm.
bees detect fear, but you don't need to worry.
because i have a very big smoker, and i handle it like a pro.
would you like to see it?
i keep seeing that same purple book.
the cover was darker.
more like a day-old contusion. keep looking.
i don't usually find students in here looking for actual books. [chuckles]
most sneak in to make out.
i accidentally walked in on two vampires fanging.
i can't unsee that.
is there something i can help you find?
have you seen this before?
it's a watermark from a book i'm looking for.
i think it's the symbol to an old student society. um…
the nightshades.
like the deadly flower.
color me intrigued.
i was told they disbanded years ago.
any idea why?
sorry.
i was very impressed with your answers in class today.
my mother is a carnivorous plant aficionado.
i assume i get my red thumb from her.
are you and your mother close?
like two inmates sentenced to life on the same cell block.
i know it can't be easy… showing up mid-semester.
i've been here a year and a half, and i still feel like an outsider.
because you're the only normie on the staff?
enid told me.
to tell you the truth, i've never really fit in anywhere.
too odd for the normies, not odd enough for the outcasts.
i thought nevermore would be different, but there's still a handful of teachers who will barely acknowledge me.
i act as if i don't care if people dislike me.
deep down… i secretly enjoy it.
never lose that, wednesday.
lose what?
let's assess, shall we?
bag over my head for optimal disorientation, wrists tied tight enough to cut off circulation, and no idea if i'm going to live or die.
it's definitely my kind of party.
there were so many threads to my investigation, i could weave a burial shroud.
i still have no idea how rowan mysteriously rose from the dead.
or why that monster is prowling the woods.
but right now, nothing intrigues me more than this book.
if i'm going to be responsible for nevermore's demise, the question is, why am i sharing this apocalypse with a pilgrim?
my grandmother once told me secrets are like zombies…
they never truly die.
i'm not sure what secret crackstone is hiding,
but i have a strange feeling the answers to my future lie in the past.
the old meeting house, 1625.
thing, this is the girl from my vision.
she's even holding the same book.
that black one she had outside crackstone's crypt.
i thought nothing scared me, but that was before i stared into the eyes of joseph crackstone.
i don't believe in heaven or hell. but i do believe in revenge.
i usually serve it warm with a side of pain, but i've never faced an adversary cast in bronze.
i don't believe in mandatory volunteer work, sugar-coated history, or happy endings, but most of all… i don't believe in coincidences.
dr. kinbott tells me i should get out more.
says i need to open my mind to new people and experiences.
who am i to argue with her professional clichés?
while i do the autopsy, you find the files of the monster's other victims and make copies.
sometimes intentions melt in the face of unexpected opportunity.
if this was my chance to get up close and personal with a potential serial killer, how could i refuse?
are you really going to make me ask?
oh, absolutely.
it's definitely a match.
what were you doing out here?
collecting specimens.
this place is ground zero for horny gypsy moths.
you think it's in there?
only one way to find out.
this is definitely its lair.
why so glum?
saw enid at lunch. asked if she got my honey.
it's not like i didn't warn you.
since neither you nor i have a date to the dance…
we should go together!
what?
no, i was going to suggest we stake out the cave and identify the monster.
whoever it may be.
so… i hear you might be free tomorrow night after all.
how well do we really know our parents?
take my father.
i've always considered him an open book.
a man given to misguided schemes and exaggerated displays of affection.
but when he was a student, he was accused of a murder that took place right up there.
which leads me to wonder…
[intense, unsettling music playing]
…what really happened that stormy night 32 years ago?
on the mend?
try in a coma.
have you been to see him?
you're his friend.
i'm the reason he's in the hospital.
that is not your fault, okay?
the monster hasn't attacked anyone in the past week.
maybe you finally scared it off.
or maybe it went into hiding to avoid this weekend.
if i'm being objective, his confession sounds entirely plausible, delivered with the perfect degree of sincerity.
perhaps my father is exactly what he says.
thank you for being honest with me.
but then there's the matter of his tells.
the way he smooths his mustache.
the way he delivers a comforting wink.
i've been playing russian roulette with him since i was 12.
i know them well.
i'm sorry i wasn't a better father.
could we please do without the overt display of emotion?
i know they make you feel uncomfortable.
how many fathers hand their daughter a fencing blade when she's five?
your saber strokes were an essay in perfection.
or teach her how to swim with sharks?
they found you as cold-blooded as i do.
the right way to flay a rattlesnake?
they really do taste like chicken when prepared properly.
the point is, you taught me how to be strong and independent.
how to navigate myself in a world full of treachery and prejudice.
you are the reason i understand how imperative it is that i never lose sight of myself.
we need to talk.
how the hell did you get in?
bernice? bernice!
bernice may or may not have received a call that her tabby cat swifty is being held for ransom.
my father did not kill garrett gates.
well, i have his signed confession, and he identified the saber he used to do it.
both of which i'm about to deliver to the district attorney.
don't you find the timing convenient?
the coroner kills himself out of remorse for a decades-old murder case the very weekend my father, your prime suspect, deigns to return to town.
all i see is a guilty man who's finally going to pay for his crime.
and cuffing him myself, oh, that was the icing on the cake.
how are you failing to see that someone is desperately trying to derail my investigation?
i found the monster's cave, and i gave you the dna evidence.
did you even bother to test it?
this may come as a shock, but the world doesn't revolve around you.
here. dna results.
no match. inconclusive.
so you truly believe this is all some coincidence?
whoever hurt eugene also murdered the coroner.
unfortunately, someone sabotaged the security camera in the morgue, so we don't know what happened.
they stuck bubblegum on the lens.
black bubblegum.
maybe i should run dna on that?
someone is trying to throw me off my game. this is all a distraction.
no, this is about justice being served.
garrett gates's family deserves closure, even if none of them are around to take comfort in it.
what happened to them?
his mother hung herself in the backyard.
his father drank himself to an early grave.
even his little sister didn't escape.
she was orphaned, sent overseas, ended up drowning.
every last one of them's gone.
your father doesn't just have garrett's blood on his hands, he's got the whole damn family's.
[dramatic music builds, trails off]
that's quite a catch.
i'm gonna miss him, wednesday.
it's not over yet. he's innocent.
well, if anyone can figure out who really committed the crime… it's you.
you have to find out the truth and free dad.
well, until that happens, we both know mother will be falling apart.
which means we have to be strong.
and by "we," i mean you.
now, give me one of those.
hello, mother.
hello, wednesday.
so you're a nightshade.
that didn't take long.
actually, i rejected them.
why? because i was a member?
i'll never live up to your legacy here, so why try?
i win the poe cup, you claimed it four times.
i join the fencing team, you captained it.
why would you send me somewhere i could only ever exist in your shadow?
it's not a competition, wednesday.
everything is a competition, mother.
but mostly i rejected them because they're a trivial social club.
we used to be so much more.
our mission was to protect outcasts from harm and bigotry.
in fact, the group was started by an ancestor of your father's from mexico.
one of the first settlers in america.
goody.
i saw her painting at pilgrim world.
oh.
how ironic, since she was the one who killed joseph crackstone.
the nightshades were her secret, but deadly, answer to his oppression.
i know why you've come here, wednesday.
so go on. ask.
father didn't kill garrett gates, did he?
no.
don't crowd me.
don't push it.
well, at least we can't say parents' weekend wasn't a nail-biter.
i knew you didn't have what it takes to be a murderer.
as much as that stings, gracias, my little death trap.
mwah.
as i leafed through the pages of this yearbook, i was reminded of all the wonderful times i had here.
but they were just that.
mine.
you have your own path to blaze.
i don't want to be a stranger in your life, darling.
if you need me for anything, anything at all, i'm only a crystal ball away.
thank you, mother.
in case you're wondering, i don't hold séances very often.
i can barely tolerate the living. why would i want to commune with the dead?
but my mother told me goody is the only one that can train me to control my psychic ability.
the sooner i master that, the sooner i crack this case.
wait, it's latin.
fire will rain… when i rise.
that's not really a wish.
the first part of that was burned onto nevermore's lawn.
it can't be a coincidence.
wait, we're never eating that cake, are we?
the perfect surprise.
when did you draw this?
you know where this is?
yeah. it's the old gates mansion.
i pass it when i go running.
why?
this is where garrett gates lived.
the boy my father was accused of murdering.
the sheriff told me his family died, along with their legacy of hate.
but ghosts don't kill the living.
goody showed me this house for a reason.
i need to unlock its secrets, or die trying.
here they are. the gates family.
they scrub up well for psychopaths.
there's garrett, his outcast-hating father, ansel, and you must be laurel.
they're all long gone.
so the question is, why did goody lead me here?
seen enough?
[gears clicking, whirring]
[machinery creaking, sliding]
we have to go back for tyler!
where'd you come from?
here.
take this.
goody warned i was destined to be alone.
maybe it's inevitable.
but for the first time in my life, it doesn't feel good.
there's also something else.
a gnawing feeling.
that death is close at hand.
watching me.
i enjoy funerals.
i've been crashing them since i was old enough to read the obituary section.
"god is our refuge and strength…"
mayor walker was murdered, and i know the killer is here, standing innocently among us, plotting their next move.
and watching everything i do.
i know i'm close to the truth.
i have all the pieces of the jigsaw.
i just need to slot them into place.
♪ what if i'm wrong? ♪
♪ what if i lied? ♪
♪ what if i've dragged you here ♪
♪ to my own dark night ♪
♪ and what if i know ♪
♪ what if i see ♪
♪ there is a crack run right down ♪
♪ the front of me ♪
i must look past the tears and masks of grief.
until now, i may have been outmatched and outmaneuvered,
but the final gambit has yet to be played.
the killer will make a mistake,
and i'll be ready.
[low, ominous music playing]
how long have you been stalking me?
my novel started out as a twisted fiction,
but somehow reality has turned it into my own personal looking glass.
my visit to the gates mansion has left me with so many questions.
if laurel gates died 20 years ago, then who's sleeping in her bedroom?
why do they have photos of me?
and what is their connection to this hyde?
whoever it is, they're clearly willing to kill for their secret.
goody predicted this quest for answers would become a lonely pursuit.
of course, goody's nowhere to be found when i need her.
that was torture.
thank you.
principal weems! principal weems!
howdy, pilgrim.
how canst thy heart still beat?
what demon sorcery is this?
stay away from her!
no!
oh my god!
i'm fine. go. get them out of here!
now!
okay!
come on, guys. let's go! go! go!
my very first stalker.
maybe this forced vacation will be more interesting than i imagined.
unlike my novel, not every thread has been tied up,
nor every question answered.
secrets are still lurking in the dark corners of jericho.
